===========
Definitions
===========

It's not possible to perform a valid economic study without using a
referential and a reference metric of exchanges, and as in any
science, the referential under consideration and the measure units
must be defined before any study.

As a referential and time and length units are needed to establish
physics laws, no advanced economic study may be performed without first
defining the referential and the associated measure unit.


Referential: the currency area
==============================

An economic area, or currency area, constitutes the basic referential
of the economic study.  How is it characterized?

* The space is where the currency agreement is expressed.
* The time, is the average lifespan of the individuals who live and
  die in it.
* The individual or collective (enterprises) production of goods and services.
* The exchange of goods and services between individuals or groups of individuals.

The individuals or groups of individuals are necessarily led to
exchange, if only information, education or more generally, any
connection.  What charaterizes fundamentally the economic area, it's
the set of individuals who are included in it.  The economy exists
everywhere and any time some individuals produce and exchange goods
and services, and this, whatever the nature of those goods and
services.  On the other hand, it's not possible to define an economic
area void of individuals.  Therefore, it's the individuals who are the
only common and fundamental value of any valid economic referential.

Furthermore, this set of individuals evolves in time, with births and
deaths, immigration and emmigration.  The economic area can be
represented as a discrete space-time, being constantly created and
destructed, where each temporary point represents an individual with a
limited lifespan.

It's a discrete spatio-temporal frame constantly evolving, not static,
where each space-time point is created at a determined time (birth of
an individual) and has a limited lifespan which, on average,
corresponds to the life expectancy, named "ev", in the economic area
under consideration.


On the other hand, and this is the fundamental definition of
relativity in economy, each individual has a personal and unique view
on the value of all things and no individual or group of individual of
a given economic area may impose to others a specific view of what is
or is not of value.


Pseudo-isolated economic area
=============================

An economic area is said pseudo-isolated when, for a given duration,
we may consider it's working in an autonomous or quasi-autonomous way
relatively to the exterior.  This may be the case of economies on
islands still autonomous, where the subsistance of individuals is
ensured by a sufficient food production (this is also relative, we may
see the case of some ascetics, for example), but this is also the case
of a topologically complex group of individuals, spread over a non
connected space, transnational or transcontinental.  As long as this
group exhibit some level of autonomy, we may consider it as a
pseudo-isolated economic area, able to self-manage its own flow of
production and exchanges, at least for a small period of time.


Measure of value: the monetary exchanges
=========================================

When there is exchange of goods and/or services, we talk of exchange
of values.  X exchanges with Y a value Vx = Vy = Px*Cx = Py*Cy, where
"Px" represents the price in a common unit (called the common
currency) of X's production "Cx".

This definition of value is perfectly relative to the observer who
measures it. So while X considers that Vx=Vy, it is possible that Y
considers that Vy>>Vx, so good for him.  Otherwise, Z who would observe
this exchange could very well judge according to his own referential
that Vx and Vy have no value.

Let's remind here how human beings fundamentally don't agree, along
their history, on the value of their goods.  Therefore the equality of
exchanged values is not an economic criteria independent of the
observer, which can be seen from the acts of gift or taxation without
return, thus asymetric, where the equality of the exchanged values is
not respected, depending on the point of view.

To have a universal measure of value, individuals agree on a common
measure of exchange called currency.  A currency thus defined is a
common measure of value for everything in the same unit, for a give
observation referential, which allows to make comparisons more easily.

The currency plays the role of exchange means between individuals of
the same economic area, but also of only value independent from the
observation referential.

That said, there are historically and locally, many different
definitions of money, that involve fundamentally different types of
exchanges, and which are usually ignored by those who agree to use it.

These cases  of ignorance of  the nature  of the currency  used, often
under  coercion, constitutes  a  violation of  basic  contract law  in
economics, which implies the acceptance by the involved parties of the
type of exchanged proposed.

We may declaim without hesitation that imposing the usage of a
non-contractual currency (which is not subject of a voluntary
acceptation) is an act contrary to the human rights, of being able to
dispose of one's life, the economic side, and a violation of the
constitutional principle of freedom and equality.

Therefore, at least in a real democracy, the official currency can
really be accepted only if it is the result of a democratic
elaboration in its definition, its validation, its acceptation, its
modification or its abandonment.

